Okay, I guess we're back.
And I have no idea what that is. My
internet was fine that entire time.
Let me go delete whatever the heck post
it just made.
2 minutes
or
eight.
It's fine.
We'll see if it's stable.
Man, that's ridiculous.
The internet here is just like that
shitty.
right. Well, stream looks like it's
okay. Welcome back, folks. There's not
much I can do about it at the moment. I
have no idea why it happens. It always
happens from this house as well. Like,
the internet's completely fine, but
Reream just drops. I have no idea why.
Well, let's keep going on this for a
bit.
I might just get like I'm only here for
a week, but probably the next time I'm
here I'll just get like Starlink or
whatever because apparently Florida
infrastructure just doesn't work.
I don't freaking know. Either like
wouldn't think it could even be
something with Refframe. Maybe the
internet's definitely been spotty here,
too, though. So,
it's weird that it happens even when I
see that like it seems stable, though. I
don't know.
Isn't this like a pretty sizable
drone? This should look bigger than
this. No.
Okay. That's like tiny drone.
But like 75
you know it should be bigger than that.
7.75 radius is quite large.
This thing should be substantially
bigger
than this, I would think.
ring radius should only be 2 * the arm
length four *
this.
Okay.
So we're going to want to do
Let's say the scale of things that we
want to look at is going to be
everything from like
up to maybe
couple of feet initially.
So, let's do like this. Let's see what
this does.
You're not going to be able to see this.
The thing it's like this little tiny
point down here.
Let's train this. And then afterwards
what we'll do is we'll see if we can
randomize the size and learn over
different sizes. Yes.
Interesting. So, this does not
does not work.
Let's see if we can make the rings
bigger.
Yeah, this is not training at all
though, which is a little odd. Okay,
let's go back to like what? 0.1
or I think 0.2 was our original
These were mostly rendering changes,
weren't they?
It can fly around and not crash, but it
can't figure out how to get in the
ranks.
Okay. So, now it's actually doing
something.
It is having a tough time though.
Okay, so what did I break in the process
of doing this?
is the policy observing from first
person or 3D person camera. Uh neither.
It's just getting it's relative state
based estimate. So, when we throw this
on real hardware, we're just going to
have to do some like really basic
perception,
uh, not even end to end to just figure
out where the rings are or like figure
out where the target is.
You ideally don't really want to do end
to end camera. Uh, if you can avoid it
for quite a while, you just make
everything between 100 and a thousand
times slower.
We can absolutely do stuff like um you
know put the ring like the ring position
only if it's in the vision cone or
something. That's easy.
The rings look smaller than before.
Yeah, they're definitely smaller than
before, right?
Okay, now it trains.
It needs really big rings.
before. No, we were doing 0.2 before.
So, we'll go 08.
So, times four in either direction, I
suppose.
And then we'll do like this.
We'll give it a small amount of uh
domain randomization. Done.
So, if we can get something sort of
similar to this to train, then this is
something I can show to Ben and uh Sam
and we can check the formulas. Hey,
Kirthy. Yeah, I'm in uh Florida for a
little bit and then I'll be in
California thereafter. So, we're kind of
making do on a laptop setup for now. And
if the uh
the internet is not amazing,
OBS likes to crash every so often,
but we're making do
Okay. So, like this does train
and it is fairly stable.
I don't know what the best you can get
is out of this, but let's see what the
policy looks like that does this.
What are you cooking?
So, we've got we're trying to make the
the same uh the same RL able to fly a
ton of different types of drones.
Now, they're hard to see because like
we're now working on really, really
small ones,
but I'm trying to randomize like the
physics, randomize the drone parameters
and get it to be able to fly pretty much
any different drone.
So, this is a big drone right here.
You can see that the control is not
exactly
reasonable. And that's not because of
the physics of this thing. It's just
because I've scaled everything wrong.
Yeah. So, the ones that like shoot
around like crazy are not going to be
super learnable. Yeah.
All right. Let's see if we can figure
out from the math
what I've done wrong here. It's all
here, right? So, it's just the scaling
is somehow screwy.
Folks are uh you can feel free to tell
me if I've screwed up physics if you
know this type of stuff.
So the mass is going to scale
cubic with the size
that seems fine
plus or - 10%.
Then you got the inertia scale
which is mass time arm length time arm
length
that also can be plus or minus 10%.
Thrust
why is thrust proportional to mass?
Okay. Thrust.
It's probably the RPM being scaled weird
now.
We'll see how this uh trains by
comparison.
75 follows away from uh releasing the
new RL guide.
I will have to make the images for that
later.
Okay, this did not help.
Presumably the drones are like falling
out of the sky or something. because
they're not able to keep themselves up.
Let's watch it a little bit. So, these
are the tiny ones.
The tiny ones are kind of fine. They zip
around.
They've got quite a bit of um
I don't handle they don't handle super
well.
Oh, wait. Did I mess up the uh Did I
mess up the the Z inertia?
I think I messed up the Z inertia,
didn't I?
Oh, actually I don't know if it's Y or
Z. Yeah, hang on.
This is worse than before by a lot,
isn't it? Well, I guess we'll see how it
converges.
Oh, because it's not proportional to
mass. Hang on.
And then let's make this proportional to
mass correctly.
up and computer's crash.
Lovely.
Huh?
Are we alive?
I guess we're alive.
I got 16 gigs of uh
of RAM. This should be allowed. Like
this should be fine.
Um,
it's like the same problem with all the
models, right? It's slow.
It's like very slow.
So, I've mostly just still been using
Brock Great.
Okay.
Scales L to the 5th. Fine. That was a
dumb thing to do anyways.
Oops.
And there goes the computer again.
Yeah, it's completely locked up for some
reason.
Am I out of memory or something? What
the hell?
No, I'm not.
That's just Linux being Linux, I guess.
I have no idea. Just randomly locks up
and sometimes it comes back, sometimes
it doesn't.
This is just a This is just a bun. I'm
not even doing anything weird.
We've done contract work in Isaac Jim,
even though that's old.
We wouldn't need Isaac Lab for something
like this.
It's just going to be slower than what
we're doing here and 10 times the amount
of code.
as one over L. Interesting.
Would you recommend Isaac Lab for vision
based RL?
No,
not at all.
Um,
like if I had to do vision for this, I
would still keep the logic. I would keep
the logic like I have it here and then I
would hook it up to the batch renderer
of any of these engines, but I wouldn't
use the engine itself. Like I think
Madrona has a decent more almost
standalone batch renderer. I'd probably
just try to get like a standalone batch
renderer
if that makes sense.
Like all the main physics engines are
just really bloated and slow
and you have no idea what they're doing
half the time. They're just slow and
like screw you if you want to figure out
why. This is just like layers and layers
and layers of stuff.
this is going to like not make it able
to fly, but we'll figure that out.
Okay, this is closer to the original
dynamics.
Now, if I
if I say that the drone is going to be
substantially bigger.
I have no idea what that is, but that
ain't it.
Drag torque coefficient. linear torque
coefficient.
Yeah, that's backwards. So, that'll
that'll do it.
No, I can.
It's just very bad at flying.
Let's see if we can train something on
this.
And then what I'm going to do is I'm
going to move this to a not broken
version. I'll commit this and I'll ch
I'll chat with um Finn and Sam
on like how we can get this to into
their stuff.
Like we'll just give them like a little
bit of domain randomization and a very
like even just give them a little bit of
domain randomization will be fine.
Uh, this says it's learning.
Maybe it was just a control problem.
It's learning.
We'll see if this crashes the laptop
again. Hopefully not.
This is a pretty dang good approximation
to like a big slow drone, right?
That's not bad.
Let's try zippy drone.
So, the smallest drone we would ever do
is like this probably, right?
So if this trains, if we get this to
train, then that means that we can train
whatever we want and we can train all of
them.
And this seems like it works.
Yeah, this seems like it works very
well.
H I honestly I didn't expect to get this
fully working in just like a few hours,
but um I think we have it.
Episode length 200.
Yeah, this is going to be a crazy zippy
drone.
Oh yeah, that zippy drone, right? Look
at that zippy drone.
Cool.
Now, here's the question. Both of these
work, right? All these actually work.
These are all of our uh both of our
configs.
So, can we get this to work, which is
going to be the randomized one
If this works,
this will be the equivalent of flying
any drone
uh from like this big up to about
like this this big.
So, pretty much all commercial drones
like except like the ridiculously big
ones, which we can do that as well. We'd
have to make the force bigger because
they don't fit through the rings.
It is training.
Understandably,
you know, when you add domain
randomization,
um, it depends on it depends on if your
problem is sparse or not. If your
problem is dense, typically it will take
longer to train. If your problem is
sparse, it can actually be faster to
train. This is a dense problem, so we
would expect that this is going to take
uh longer to train.
I just want to see if we can get some
reasonable PF out of this to
with just a minute of training with the
same like tiny little network. It's
fine. 87.
That's still a good result though.
I mean, I think you'll see when we eval
this.
I would think that this one should be
faster.
It might just be controlling it very
conservatively because it doesn't want
to like screw up with the bigger drones.
Hey, Bat.
Is this the Secretary of Defense that
you've just linked to me?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah. Kind of a good time to be in the
space.
I'm sure they have no idea about any of
this.
This is controlling any drone. Like this
is a this is a much bigger drone.
I mean that to be fair, they can
probably figure out how to hire a bunch
of people to pilot them manually.
Oh, you know why this is slow? Cuz I
messed with the FPS.
This is this should be identical to
before.
We don't have to retrain. We can just
evaluate
I mean, realistically, either of them is
going to be a step up, but yeah,
like it's massively it's a pretty
massive difference.
Okay, this is way better. So, now we
actually have something that looks
reasonable, right? Look, we've got zippy
small drone. This is zippy small drone.
We've got like reasonably slower big
drone.
Perfect. I mean, this is this is exactly
what we wanted.
This is fly whatever drone.
Okay, I will push that up off stream in
a second.
Well,
yeah. But anyways,
Let me actually just I know how I know
what I can do with this real quick. Just
real quick here. Just got to do this off
screen.
Okay, that's pushed.
So that's uh that is live. You all can
play with that.
Plus 26.
What's plus 26?
Yeah. So, we are um depending on how
this goes, like in the next couple of
days, I should be launching the guide
for 10K, which will be pretty cool.
Yeah. Well, get me to 10k followers and
we'll you'll have the guide.
It makes sense to do it. It's It was
like a decent amount of work. It makes
sense to do it for the 10k milestone.
All right,
let me get this onto the uh the bigger
machine. That's what we'll do because I
have to go to dinner early today. So,
let's just go get the
It says I'm Puffer Outreach on the
website.
Does that what it is that it says?
That's mostly what Spencer's been doing.
I think it says you're the puffer
procelite.
No, it doesn't. Where does it say that?
I did.
Am I blind?
Oh, outreach. Yeah, you're right. Okay,
whatever.
Sure,
That was outreach before we were doing
actually actual client outreach. But
yeah, sure.
Offers open for you as well if you want
to try to get on to the contract side of
things.
It's mainly just about whoever can help
us find uh actual clients for things
that they can actually be a part of.
I mean, you have skills in other areas,
right? I don't know if there's anything
you can do on that Sim side.
Maybe
Yeah. Let's just real quick. Here's what
we'll do.
Do I not have tail scale?
I don't think I have tail scale on this
machine.
That was a dumb thing not to check that
I had
chest coming along.
Yeah, the uh the guy,
what was the other guy on Twitter? He
said he was interested in helping with
that.
I would very much like to have like a
good working chess.
He said deep mind got it to work
reasonably well internally. So if we had
an open source of that it would be
really awesome.
Yeah, like now that I think about it,
bet you could totally you don't even
really need to do a search baseline
like at all if you don't want to.
You can pretty much just use Stockfish
for eval.
literally
well
just making random moves probably
doesn't get you very far. I don't know.
I'd be kind of interested to know what
elo it would be if you just make random
valid moves but you never blunder a
piece. I wonder what elo that is.
Welcome Jai.
No CUDA GPUs available. Lovely.
Don't you love Docker?
Like you kind of get the idea though,
right? Bet. Like we're just going to We
just want to see how good of a chess
thing we can train very very quickly to
like a reasonably good ELO. My
5-year-old can beat pure random that
doesn't blunder pieces. I highly doubt
that.
If you never blunder a piece, I think
that you actually already get to like
a ELO that is above a brand new human
player,
right?
Because humans aren't like you're not
making random moves, but you people
blunder pieces even in long form chess
up to like what 1500 or something like
commonly
more. Yeah.
It's kind of amusing how bad I am at
like
I'm bad at like all almost all games of
that form.
Like I am bad at all puzzles. I am bad
at like all search based games pretty
much.
Okay, this trains at 3.7 mill steps per
second. So, uh, that's nice.
Let's say we show people the Neptune
graphs.
I actually have no idea how hard chest
is bet. Like
what what ELO is exact two-step search
like two-step look ahead, right?
That's like a fun question to ask for a
lot of these problems, right? What ELO
do you get by doing exact like one step,
two step, three step, look ahead.
Okay, so we trained for 500 mil. We got
95% PF
and it's still going up, right?
Yeah, this is still going up.
So I think that if we literally just
Yeah. So, this is interesting. It's
actually
not even near the previous performance.
Oh, it's unstable.
Huh.
Well folks, what do we do when our
neural net is unstable
for uh when you do longer runs?
Times up. Correct answer is lower the
learning rate.
Sweep is the uh NAF fly with a you know
na fly option.
If it's a quick problem, you try just
cutting the learning rate in like half
first.
We will probably run a sweep anyways on
the machine.
Huh? It doesn't seem like it learns at
all with lower learning rate. Isn't that
funny?
See, this is why uh hyper pamps
make absolutely no sense.
Yeah, absolutely right. If look, if even
I can't like consistently make good
predictions about hypers after all these
years, it's
it just doesn't follow any sort of fence
at all.
Here, we'll see if this does it.
And then we'll just run sweep on this
box.
It shouldn't at least it at least should
not be hardware dependent. The sweep is
hardware dependent.
The sweeps are hardware dependent
because we base them on uh exact like we
base them on train time in seconds.
You were doing physics stuff. Was it
coherent?
Um, kind of. It was very basic physics
and it was very slow
is the thing.
the first set of hypers I set was the
best so far.
There was like a takeoff point, you
know? You see how in this original graph
it like it kind of dipped up at the top
or at the end was interesting.
This is stable. Not really though. Like
it's not
stable would be like a log linear curve.
I'm going to try one other thing
manually and then I'll just like run a
sweeper, whatever.
No. See, it's like it's not It kind of
learned everything and it's kind of just
leveled.
Yeah. Let's just do here. This is what
we'll do.
and we'll do policy
for hidden
Oh yeah, it likes that.
Okay.
What the hell are you doing?
Uh, let me show you.
Welcome, Adicha.
We've got this drone simulator and we're
doing reinforcement learning to control
the drone.
And since we want this to run on real
hardware, I am uh adding a bunch of
noising techniques to the sim that
should make the policy that we train on
this way more robust in the real world.
So basically, we're training it to
control all sorts of different types of
drugs under a whole bunch of different
perturbations.
Oh yeah, we also have multi-agent stuff.
Let me see if I can find the demo that I
did for that. We had a Fourth of July
day demo on this.
Yeah, can train a whole bunch of them to
like arrange themselves into a flag
and they like bump each other out of the
way because they try not to collide.
This is a pretty fun graphic.
Yeah, you see they like bump each other
out of the way. They try not to collide,
so they move out of the way of each
other as much as they can.
Well, that's an interesting graph.
So, it ended up in the exact same spot,
but just with a different like a weirdly
different curve. You see this?
You did your bachelor's in
computer science, AI, same thing. I was
already doing reinforcement learning.
Like after sophomore year, I was doing
RL. I was doing natural language
processing and machine learning before
like natural language processing and
computer vision before that.
Okay. Well, we don't need to make the
policy larger for the sake of making the
policy larger. So we'll just use like
tiny environment
and um I think we need down sample
right? Do these things have a score
metric associated with them? I did make
a score, right?
Did I not add score?
Oh, no. There is a score. We're fine.
And the learning rate is true.
I don't see anything bad in here.
currently doing my bachelor's in CS
second year. Can you give me suggestions
on what I should do?
I I mean it depends.
That depends entirely on your goals,
right, man?
Depends entirely on your goals.
Yeah, but like what do you want to do,
right?
emailing to apply to things will only
work if you know what you're doing. That
does work, but it only works if you know
what you're doing. And you like can very
quickly and obviously prove that
Can you suggest some topics that are
novel in the field right now? Uh, in RL,
absolutely. In fact, I have um there's a
guide that I'm releasing very soon when
as soon as I hit 10K followers on X,
we're like 75 away that has like a full
overview of a lot of the things I'm
thinking about. Um, I think that the
main thing that I'm interested in
research- wise at the moment is figuring
out what the heck was going on with all
of the like sample efficient RL stuff
that DeepMind was trying to do and have
been doing for many years. Uh,
they're kind of like there's a huge
amount of stuff in off policy modelbased
search. These are all sort of methods
for how do we use more compute to reduce
dependence on having tons of samples.
But the thing is like the quality of a
lot of the research out there is very
very low and even the research that's
done very competently. There are just a
huge number of conflating variables that
make it very difficult to isolate the
causes of anything.
So figuring that out properly is uh is
really a major major thing at the
moment.
I think in research in general like
that's kind of the broad topic right the
sub areas of that are off policy model
based and search
there's a whole bunch of cool stuff we
can do in multi- aent learning and
adverse aerial stuff that we can do now
that we weren't able to do before that
we could do very easily in puffer
there's still stuff in R infin to be
solved
there's still stuff in like why do
architectures not scale up
appropriately.
I mean really there are there quite a
large number of different things that we
still need to do.
At the very least though I mean here's
what you can think about. This is
probably the best way to put it. Like a
lot of the research that was done uh in
2017 to 2024 era was kind of just doomed
to fail based on how slow everything
was. But now we're actually positioned
to do stuff uh to do stuff fast and that
makes a huge difference on its own. And
yes, do star the puffer and all that
stuff. It helps me out a ton. It's free.
Joseph just starts talking and you're
busy for two months. Well, I mean, it's
it's a whole field, right? Like, yeah,
congratulations. I've been busy for a
decade.
course, it's a skill issue. Like the
stuff just it takes it takes time to
learn.
What the heck is wrong with my Ben?
Holy.
I have no idea why you can't
Why that's doing that? That's bizarre. I
use the other term.
Redev streams live.
I like it.
Oops.
Hey, welcome.
Hang on. I just I messed everything up.
All right. here. Do this.
Welcome, Roger. Roger.
Welcome.
I mean that is an app description.
Oh yeah, we don't need this docker
actually. We just need
and just make the policy gigantic
by Ral standards?
What am I doing? I'm doing reinforcement
learning research
Hey Joseph, do you think puffer lib can
make it possible to train graph neural
nets with reinforcement learning given
constantly changing input and output
sizes of those nets? currently getting
into
if the R is recurrent then a recurrent
graph wait is that a recurrent graph
convolutional net
I don't know the acronym for that
um
relational okay
so I don't know are those things fast
that's my main question like has anybody
actually done the math and like how fast
does one of those run compared to a uh
like a standard architecture of the same
size.
I've never gotten into graph nets.
I It seems like those could probably I
don't even know if those can be made
fast to be fair.
The closest thing I've gotten into that
is I've done neural module networks
which is like it's a graph or
realistically like a tree or a DAG and
that's I think like a DAG. Yeah. And
it's made out of
each node in the graph is a small neural
net. I've done that before.
See if this runs.
Regarding the guides you mentioned,
could you talk a bit more about the
content it's going to cover? So, if you
check either X or the Puffer website,
there's a quick start guide that has a
lot of good general advice for how to
view reinforcement learning and what to
do and like resources to look at. I the
guide I'm releasing is a much more
extensive and much more formalized
version of that that has a a way better
like step by step implement this read
this implement that read that like step
by step to how to learn reinforcement
learning that references my quick start
guide. Uh there's also like a general
MLM programming advice guide that I've
put together. It'll reference that. It
references other articles that I've
written. It references uh stuff not by
me. It references like several blog
posts and a bunch of academic papers.
So, it really gives you like a way more
comprehensive overview for everything.
Okay. So, I figured I'd just put this I
just increased the size of the network
for neural MMO 3 just so we had like
something running on this box because
who you never know maybe it does
something cool for us.
There ends where most of the data is
best represented in terms of entities
and their relations. Yeah, that's pretty
common.
Covenants are a natural fit. Think of
Stellaris. Uh okay. Um,
read the entity neural nets blog post
from Clemens Winter. Clemens. Yeah,
Clemens Winter,
buddy of mine.
I don't think you need full graph maps
basically.
You do probably need some sort of
transformer
or some sort of attention.
Attention and reinforcement learning is
really obnoxious though. Like even small
transformers or even small like single
layer attention things are very slow.
But that's going to be your best
reference.
What article was it? Entity neural
networks. Hope you get 10K soon. Yeah,
thanks. I mean, we're almost there. This
is
We're like very very close, which is why
I made it a 10K goal instead of just
posting it. I figured like, okay, we'll
get there in a few days anyways. It
would be like a cool thing.
It's like 75 away if that.
All right here.
So yeah, this will run what I just set
up for this. I set up a hyperparameter
sweep with protein, which is our
hyperparameter sweep algorithm. Uh it's
a very nice algorithm.
So this is going to run 200 experiments
of between
100 million and a billion steps each.
And this will be done in some number of
hours. And hopefully it'll find for us a
good set of hyperparams for this. And if
it doesn't get above uh 0.95, then I'm
going to suspect that there is like
basically that some combinations of the
randomizations make the m unsolvable
because normally our RL is ridiculously
good. So it kind of just solves
everything.
Like more often than not when it doesn't
solve, there's a problem with the
environment at this point.
Time is is it 5:20?
Yeah. So, I'm in Florida today and well,
for the next little bit, uh I don't have
anywhere near as convenient of a setup
as I have in Maryland here in Florida.
So, jank stream setup, occasional
disconnects with OBS, but also I have to
spend longer on things like food. Um,
anyways, the plan for the next couple of
weeks here, uh, I'm spending a little
time in Florida, then I'm going to
California. I'll get myself set up
properly as best I can in California.
Uh, I'm going to be taking a whole bunch
of meetings while I'm there. So, the
stream is going to be a lot less
consistent for a little bit, but I will
be at RLC in person. So, if you want to
come say hi and you're happen to be
going to that, let's meet up at RLC.
I believe Spencer's going as well. Um,
which will be fun.
I'll be presenting Puffer Lib there.
Technically, it's the Puffer Lib 2.0 uh
publication, but I will make the poster
for 3 because it would be silly to not
update it.
And yeah, I'm mostly just going to be
looking to hang out there and chat with
a whole bunch of people doing a whole
bunch of different things in Ral.
I'm not looking forward to having to
make that poster bet.
It's a bit annoying. I'll probably go
look at like one of the old posters and
see what I can steal from that.
The old puffer posters that I made
before.
I already have business cards. I'm not
updating I'm not updating those just for
this conference. Not happening.
Hello manu.
I'm about to head out for the day. Um,
actually, real quick, since we do have
Well, we had Yeah, we do have some
people. Cool. Um,
today we got drones working randomized
very nicely,
95%
accuracy at least. We'll see if we get
99 overnight.
Uh, if you are interested in all this
stuff, everything that you see me
developing is free. It's open source.
Most of the people that help on this
just randomly showed up one day and
started contributing. So if you're
interested in that, everything's at
puffer.ai
can start the repo to help me out for
free. Join us on Discord to get involved
and you can follow me on X for more
content. I put a lot of the articles on
the blog here, but not all of them. So
there is unique content on here. And
it's all RL based. It's like I pretty
much only post RL stuff. So uh yeah,
thank you. And I will be back probably
tomorrow morning doing likely more drone
stuff is going to be the guess depending
on if Finn and Sam see this uh and we
can chat about some of the physics.